# Links tok use for today's task   

FIFA 20 complete player dataset | Kaggle
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/stefanoleone992/fifa-20-complete-player-dataset?select=players_20.csv 
  
[seaborn cheat sheet](https://github.com/kimfetti/Videos/tree/master/Seaborn)


# Tasks for next meeting: 

[Tableau Tutorial - 3 Important Concepts you NEED to know - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4fst9Zm4-BM&list=PLssCT4JSGVsf5_49Ljua05vrPfXzcsMER&index=3)

[Join vs relationship in tableau](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FtyVMvfzn1I&list=PLkZ_g9Y7eszLoyG_93z8ocL7O_XmohqAt&index=2)

[Tableau - LEVEL UP your problem solving with 10 questions - Set #1 | sqlbelle - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rKTudr3lKc4) 


















---------------- 



## Python visualization   

### packages to save your time   

[The Top 30 Exploratory Data Analysis Open Source Projects](https://awesomeopensource.com/projects/exploratory-data-analysis) 

**Examples of packages**     

[Pandas Profiling](https://awesomeopensource.com/project/pandas-profiling/pandas-profiling#examples) 

[Lux](https://awesomeopensource.com/project/lux-org/lux)


## Seaborn 

### Notebook guides for seaborn   

[Seaborn Tutorial 2021 - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6GUZXDef2U0) and [derekbanas/seaborn](https://github.com/derekbanas/seaborn)    

[Seaborn detailed tutorial - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vaf4ir8eT38&list=PLtPIclEQf-3cG31dxSMZ8KTcDG7zYng1j) and [Code](https://github.com/kimfetti/Videos/tree/master/Seaborn)

### Seaborn important concepts  

[A Major Seaborn Plotting Tip I Wish I Had Learned Earlier | by Will Norris | Towards Data Science](https://towardsdatascience.com/a-major-seaborn-plotting-tip-i-wish-i-had-learned-earlier-d8209ad0a20e)  


## Gallery with code  

[Python Graph Gallery](https://www.python-graph-gallery.com/)


## matplotlib   

[rougier/scientific-visualization-book: An open access book on scientific visualization using python and matplotlib](https://github.com/rougier/scientific-visualization-book) 


[matplotlib/cheatsheets: Official Matplotlib cheat sheets](https://github.com/matplotlib/cheatsheets) 








[Hans Rosling's 200 Countries, 200 Years, 4 Minutes - The Joy of Stats - BBC Four - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jbkSRLYSojo)

# Top resources  

[Best reference ever - huge list of tableau curated resources](http://www.tableaureferenceguide.com/)  
 
[Tableau Learning & Community Quiz](https://www.tableau.com/learn/learning-quiz)  

## Tableau top viz all time  

[TOP Vizzes – Vizification.com](https://vizification.com/top-100-tableau-public-vizzes-of-all-time) 

[Workbook: Visual Vocabulary](https://public.tableau.com/views/VisualVocabulary/VisualVocabulary?%3AshowVizHome=no) 

[Workbook: The Tableau Chart Catalog](https://public.tableau.com/views/TheTableauChartCatalog/TableauChartExamples?:showVizHome=no) 

[BBC Audiences Tableau Style Guide | Tableau Public](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/bbc.audiences/viz/BBCAudiencesTableauStyleGuide/MoreInfo2) 

[Tableau Visualization Library (Viz Library) | Tableau Public](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/kritdikoon.woraitthinan/viz/Book1_v10_4/AnalysisLibrary) 

[Tableau Cook Book | Tableau Public](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/josh.weyburne/viz/CookBook/VizCookbook)

## selected youtube playlists/videos  

[How to Build Chart Types in Tableau - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL_t5OlLHbVGxFSiWXUsEQrDPvFd1Nhxiu) 

[Tableau-How to build different types of charts | Tableau Tutorial | Episode-6 | Data Semantics - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pTNp95XNKUw)

[Tableau Groups vs Sets - Comparison and examples (proportional brushing, top and bottom values) - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fqBFTdTxT1M)


## nice intro   

Tableau for Data Science and Data Visualization - Crash Course Tutorial - YouTube - fast walkthru
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TPMlZxRRaBQ 


## Lies with viz  

[How to Spot Visualization Lies | FlowingData]
(https://flowingdata.com/2017/02/09/how-to-spot-visualization-lies/) 


## official tableau resources  

[Free Training Videos - 2021.4](https://www.tableau.com/learn/training/20214) 


## Datacamp   

[Introduction | Tableau](https://campus.datacamp.com/courses/introduction-to-tableau/getting-started-with-tableau?ex=1)

[Profile - datacamp.introduction.to.tableau | Tableau Public](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/datacamp.introduction.to.tableau#!/)


## maps  

[The 7 Best Thematic Map Types for Geospatial Data | by Abdishakur | Towards Data Science](https://towardsdatascience.com/the-7-best-thematic-map-types-for-geospatial-data-34d21b8b475)


## flow diagrams  

[RPubs - Family Planning Dynamics Data: Chord vs. Sankey](https://rpubs.com/YJ_Choi/FPDynamicsData)


## Line vs area charts  

[What to consider when creating area charts](https://blog.datawrapper.de/area-charts/) 

## resources to be explored  

15 Tableau Projects for Beginners to Practice with Source Code
https://www.projectpro.io/article/-tableau-projects-ideas/479

[How to Create an Interactive Resume in Tableau | Tableau Public](https://public.tableau.com/en-us/s/blog/2016/09/how-create-interactive-resume-tableau) 

Tableau | 8 Dashboard Container Tricks | by Donabel Santos | Medium
https://sqlbelle.medium.com/tableau-8-dashboard-container-tricks-e0a60d238222

Blog | Art of Visualization
https://www.artofvisualization.com/blog 

Discover | Tableau Public
https://public.tableau.com/app/discover 

A Rough Guide to Dashboard Actions | Tableau Public
https://public.tableau.com/en-us/s/blog/2015/06/rough-guide-dashboard-actions 


Fundamentals of Visualization with Tableau - Grades | Coursera
https://www.coursera.org/learn/data-visualization-tableau/home/assignments

What is the REAL Value of Tableau Certifications? - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0oET5zmEGJk 


Tableau's Product Portfolio | Tableau Tutorial | Episode-1 | Data Semantics - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fofUWyEgdx4&list=PLt5ZVA6dNC91-kQydsrbrBucyqsWdQkyD 



Tableau Fundamentals Track - DataCamp Learn
https://app.datacamp.com/learn/skill-tracks/tableau-fundamentals 


the next two courses are not in the track 

Connecting Data in Tableau - DataCamp Learn
https://app.datacamp.com/learn/courses/connecting-data-in-tableau 


Statistical Techniques in Tableau - DataCamp Learn
https://app.datacamp.com/learn/courses/statistical-techniques-in-tableau 


Get Started - Tableau
https://help.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/gettingstarted_overview.htm 

Blog Series: Using Tableau and Alteryx for Data Quality Reporting - The Information Lab
https://www.theinformationlab.co.uk/2021/02/02/blog-series-using-tableau-and-alteryx-for-data-quality-reporting/ 

Knowledge Base
https://www.tableau.com/support/knowledgebase 

Tableau for Data Science and Data Visualization - Crash Course Tutorial - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TPMlZxRRaBQ         

## miscellaneous  

What Is The Difference Between Tableau Online and Tableau Server? - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rN6lT6hiU3M 


## advanced resources  

[Tableau Tutorial - Parameters - Complete Introduction - with 10 use cases step-by-step for beginners - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Uar_D57QhU)  

[Learning Tableau by reverse engineering - The Information Lab](https://www.theinformationlab.co.uk/2015/01/22/learning-tableau-reverse-engineering/) 

[Xenographics – Weird but (sometimes) useful charts](https://xeno.graphics/) 

5 Types of Dashboards | Tableau Public
https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/adam.e.mccann/viz/5TypesofDashboards/4BottomUpDashboard 
 

Lies, Distortions, and Misrepresentations in Visualization - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IFA-3uXEcb0 


The Data School - Parameters vs Filters in Tableau
https://www.thedataschool.co.uk/kristine-wiesner/tableau-parameters 


## V imp tips  

[Blog Series: Using Tableau and Alteryx for Data Quality Reporting - The Information Lab](https://www.theinformationlab.co.uk/2021/02/02/blog-series-using-tableau-and-alteryx-for-data-quality-reporting/)

[Understanding Layout Containers in Tableau - InterWorks](https://interworks.com/blog/tspaulding/2013/08/07/understanding-layout-containers-tableau/) 

By default, tableau will use relationship instead of join in tableau 2022.1 version. It seems to be much better than joins
[How Relationships Differ from Joins - Tableau](https://help.tableau.com/current/online/en-us/datasource_relationships_learnmorepage.htm) 


# Top resources this week  

## Tableau  

[20+ Windows Tableau Desktop shortcuts you should know. - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xRTzYyfSyDo&list=PLRfaJ7ZL0cF7U9cR7ORuueqxItw3qcno1) 

[Tableau Desktop Shortcuts Cheat Sheet - Intellipaat Blog](https://intellipaat.com/blog/tutorial/tableau-tutorial/tableau-desktop-shortcuts-cheat-sheet/) 

[Tableau Layout Containers Explained in Under 10 mins : 2020 Updated - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=96371LvULXM) 

[Tutorial For Tableau LODs Fixed | Perfect for Beginners - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RIVVbvqvy6A) 

[Tableau LOD (Level of Detail) Expressions Explained - FIXED, INCLUDE, EXCLUDE - Complete Tutorial - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yush1yNz9VM) 


